Document how to test OIDC with DevServices and minor updates to quarkus-test-keycloak-server (#19734)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-openid-connect.adoc

Testing your `quarkus-oidc` `service` application with `OidcWiremockTestResource` provides the best coverage as even the communication channel is tested against the Wiremock HTTP stubs.
`OidcWiremockTestResource` will be enhanced going forward to support more complex Bearer token test scenarios.

[[integration-testing-keycloak-devservices]]
=== Dev Services for Keycloak

> Using link:security-openid-connect-dev-services[Dev Services for Keycloak] is recommended for the integration testing against Keycloak.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using link:security-openid-connect-dev-services[Dev Services for Keycloak] is recommended for integration testing against Keycloak.
```

`Dev Services for Keycloak` will launch and initialize a test container: it will create a `quarkus` realm, a `quarkus-app` client (`secret` secret) and add `alice` (`admin` and `user` roles) and `bob` (`user` role) users, where all of these properties can be customized.

First you need to add the following dependency:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-test-keycloak-server</artifactId>
    <scope>test</scope>
</dependency>
----

> which provides a utility class `io.quarkus.test.keycloak.client.KeycloakTestClient` you can use in tests for acquiring the access tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which provides a utility class `io.quarkus.test.keycloak.client.KeycloakTestClient` you can use in tests for acquiring access tokens.
```

> Next prepare `application.properties`. You can start with a completely empty `application.properties` as `Dev Services for Keycloak` will register `quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url` pointing to the running test container as well as `quarkus.oidc.client-id=quarkus-app` and `quarkus.oidc.credentials.secret=secret`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next prepare your `application.properties`. You can start with a completely empty `application.properties` as `Dev Services for Keycloak` will register `quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url` pointing to the running test container as well as `quarkus.oidc.client-id=quarkus-app` and `quarkus.oidc.credentials.secret=secret`.
```

But if you already have all the required `quarkus-oidc` properties configured then you only need to associate `quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url` with the `prod` profile for `Dev Services for Keycloak`to start a container, for example:

[source,properties]
----
%prod.quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url=http://localhost:8180/auth/realms/quarkus
----

If a custom realm file has to be imported into Keycloak before running the tests then you can configure `Dev Services for Keycloak` as follows:

[source,properties]
----
%prod.quarkus.oidc.auth-server-url=http://localhost:8180/auth/realms/quarkus
quarkus.keycloak.devservices.realm-path=quarkus-realm.json
----

> Finally write a test code which will work in the JVM mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally write your test which will be executed in JVM mode:
```

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.security.openid.connect;

import io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusTest;
import io.quarkus.test.keycloak.client.KeycloakTestClient;
import io.restassured.RestAssured;
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;

@QuarkusTest
public class BearerTokenAuthenticationTest {

    KeycloakTestClient keycloakClient = new KeycloakTestClient();

    @Test
    public void testAdminAccess() {
        RestAssured.given().auth().oauth2(getAccessToken("alice"))
                .when().get("/api/admin")
                .then()
                .statusCode(200);
        RestAssured.given().auth().oauth2(getAccessToken("bob"))
                .when().get("/api/admin")
                .then()
                .statusCode(403);
    }

    protected String getAccessToken(String userName) {
        return keycloakClient.getAccessToken(userName);
    }
}
----

> and the native mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and in native mode:
```

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.security.openid.connect;

import io.quarkus.test.junit.QuarkusIntegrationTest;

@QuarkusIntegrationTest
public class NativeBearerTokenAuthenticationIT extends BearerTokenAuthenticationTest {
}
----

Please see link:security-openid-connect-dev-services[Dev Services for Keycloak] for more information about the way it is initialized and configured.

[[integration-testing-keycloak]]
=== KeycloakTestResourceLifecycleManager

> If you need to do the integration testing against Keycloak then you are encouraged to do it with <<integration-testing-keycloak-devservices,Dev Services For Keycloak>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to do some integration testing against Keycloak then you are encouraged to do it with <<integration-testing-keycloak-devservices,Dev Services For Keycloak>>.
```

</dependency>
----

which provides `io.quarkus.test.keycloak.server.KeycloakTestResourceLifecycleManager` - an implementaion of `io.quarkus.test.common.QuarkusTestResourceLifecycleManager` which starts a Keycloak container.

> And configure `maven.surefire.plugin` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And configure the Maven Surefire plugin as follows:
```
